
                        _NO DRUG ... NO HUNGER_




                                  KNOX
                          EAT AND REDUCE PLAN
                              _including_
                         CHOICE-OF-FOODS CHART


                       K-S COPR. 1957 CHARLES E. KNOX GELATINE CO., INC.




   Questions and answers regarding the NEW KNOX CHOICE-OF-FOODS diet:


    [Illustration: {uncaptioned}]

Q. IS THIS NEW DIET BASED ON SOUND REDUCING PRINCIPLES YOUR DOCTOR WILL
OK?

    [Illustration: {uncaptioned}]

A. _Indeed he will_ ... because the CHOICE-OF-FOODS DIET is based on
sound nutritional principles with which your doctor has had a great deal
of experience. For many years the medical profession has advised the use
of Food Exchange Lists[1] where proper diet is of the utmost importance
to the patient’s very existence ... as in the case of the diabetic.
Naturally, this system of dieting must provide with unfailing accuracy,
the proper amounts of protein, minerals and vitamins essential to good
health at all times.

Now, these carefully and scientifically developed Food Exchanges (or, as
we call them ... CHOICES) have been adjusted to a reducing diet, making
it one that can actually improve your health as well as control your
weight.

Q. IF YOU HAVE TRIED OTHER WAYS OF REDUCING WITHOUT SUCCESS ... WHY WILL
THE CHOICE-OF-FOODS DIET SOLVE YOUR WEIGHT PROBLEM?

    [Illustration: {uncaptioned}]

A. _Weight control normally involves just 2 factors_:

the knowledge of a few simple rules of nutrition and your own will power
to carry them out. First of all, there’s no mystery about why you’ve put
on weight. You’ve been eating more food than your body burns up ... so,
this extra food has turned to fat. You _will_ lose extra weight on this
safe, sound diet ... because you’ll be eating fewer calories[2] than
needed and will force your body to use the stored fat. You’ll find the
CHOICE-OF-FOODS DIET is _more_ than a way to get rid of excess weight
right now. It is a basic guide to good eating habits for anyone ... fat
or thin. It will teach you _what foods_ and how much of them to eat to
get slim and _stay_ slim.

Q. IS THIS A MONOTONOUS “SAME FOODS EVERY DAY” DIET ... OR IS IT A
VARIED ONE YOU’LL FIND EASY TO STICK TO?

    [Illustration: {uncaptioned}]

A. _The Knox Choice-of-Foods diet offers you a wide variety of good_,
normal _foods_ ... not extreme or faddish ones, from which to prepare
meals you and your family will enjoy. In fact, the only way your family
will know you’re dieting will be when they see you take smaller
portions. A diet that allows you to eat such favorites as steak, baked
potatoes, seafood and delicious desserts is one you’ll find easy to
follow ... even long after you’ve reached your weight goal.

Q. DO YOU HAVE TO SPEND TIME COUNTING CALORIES AND WORRYING ABOUT
BALANCED MEALS?

    [Illustration: {uncaptioned}]

A. _No, and this is one good reason why you’ll find it so easy to stay
on the Knox Choice-of-Foods diet._

It does most of the work for you! As you look at the key to this
reducing plan—the CHOICE-OF-FOODS DIET LISTS (shown on pull-out chart
following page 18) you will quickly see that the foods you must eat
classify into 6 simple lists. _The foods in amounts indicated in each of
these lists are nutritional equals._

FOR EXAMPLE:

Under the Meat List you will find seven foods ... each one having the
_same amount of protein, carbohydrate, fat and calories_—

  Meat and poultry (Beef, lamb, pork, liver, chicken)
  Cold Cuts (Salami, minced ham, Bologna, liverwurst, luncheon loaf)
  Frankfurter
  Egg
  Fish (Haddock, flounder, bass, salmon, tuna, crab, lobster, shrimp,
              clams, oysters, sardines)
  Cheese (Cheddar type, cottage)
  Peanut butter

If yours is the 1200 daily calorie diet ... and calls for 4 of the foods
on the Meat List ... just select _any_ 4 of the foods you wish (in the
quantity indicated) without thinking about calories and you can’t go
wrong. _The calories have already been counted for you when the list was
prepared._

Q. WHY DOES PROTEIN PLAY SUCH AN IMPORTANT ROLE IN THIS DIET?

A. _Because this particular nutrient is a vital key to feeling, looking
and doing your best at all times._ The more science proves about
protein, the more we know of its importance in the daily diet. _Your
body can’t store protein ... you must have a new supply of it every day
to build and renew body tissues._ You can readily see, then, why protein
is so necessary in reducing diets. Without it, body tissues waste away,
muscles sag and pep lags.

Q. HOW SOON WILL YOU SEE RESULTS ON THIS REDUCING DIET?

    [Illustration: {uncaptioned}]

A. _You will lose from one to three pounds[3] a week._ However, don’t be
discouraged if you lose slowly at first or if you lose at an irregular
rate. Remember, you gained all these extra pounds over a period of time.
Give yourself time to lose them.

Q. IF YOU GET HUNGRY ... ARE “BETWEEN-MEAL” SNACKS ALLOWED ON THIS DIET?

A. _Yes! Because they not only make dieting more pleasant, they are
necessary!_ Nutritionally, a “between-meal” snack does two things: gives
dieters an “energy lift” needed at late morning and late afternoon.
Also, it dulls the appetite, making the dieter content with less food at
the next meal. Remember, however, these snacks must be kept within your
daily calorie pattern!




  Choice-of-Foods diet allows you to have the famous Knox High-Protein
                     Gelatine Drink 3 times a day.


    [Illustration: {uncaptioned}]

(Yes, this is the same concentrated protein drink doctors have
recommended for years ... as a pleasant way to get more protein in the
daily diet of persons whose daily intake of this vital nutrient may be
inadequate.) In the reducing diet, the Knox Drink works 3 ways:

  1. It’s a wonderfully refreshing and filling “between-meal” treat
  2. It curbs your appetite, so you are satisfied with less food
  3. It supplies you with _additional protein, a must_ when you are
          taking off excess weight.




          Take the Knox High-Protein Drink ½ hour before meals
               ... _IN EITHER OF THESE APPETIZING WAYS:_


AS A COLD DRINK (WITH FRUIT JUICES)

    [Illustration: {uncaptioned}]

Empty 1 envelope Knox Gelatine in ¾ glass of orange juice, other fruit
juices or water, not iced. Let liquid absorb the gelatine. Then stir
briskly. Drink quickly. If it thickens, add more liquid, stir again.

AS A HOT DRINK (WITH BOUILLON)

    [Illustration: {uncaptioned}]

Sprinkle 1 envelope Knox Gelatine on ¼ cup cold water to soften. Add 1
bouillon cube and ¾ cup boiling water. Stir until gelatine and bouillon
cube are thoroughly dissolved. ¾ cup of any very hot broth may be used
in place of bouillon.


Also, you’ll find you have a wide choice of delicious, filling Knox
soups, salads and desserts that have so few calories ... _you may have a
serving of any one of them a day and not worry about upsetting your
daily calorie pattern_. Look for these delicious treats in the recipe
section in back of book.

Q. AFTER YOUR WEIGHT GOAL IS REACHED, HOW WILL YOU KEEP YOUR SLENDER,
NEW FIGURE?

A. _The sensible eating habits you form while following the Knox
Choice-of-Foods diet and the Knox “Booster” Drink will help you do
this!_ You will find you’ve lost much of your desire for over-eating.
You’ve seen the dramatic change in your looks and your feelings. You’re
more attractive, feel younger, healthier, happier. Now you want to stay
that way!

With the loss of excess weight, you are now entitled to more calories.
 However, always remember, _too many more calories_ will put extra
pounds right back on.

Actually, _you can have about ½ as many more calories as your original
diet plan called for_. For instance, if you were on the 1200 calorie
Knox diet, about 1800 calories is right for you to maintain your new
weight.

As you have already learned on page 8, Protein is the vital key to
feeling and looking your best at all times ... particularly when you are
reducing or _watching your weight_ as you are now doing. The Knox
High-Protein “Booster” Drink[4] made with milk will not only add about
15 grams of useful, body-building Protein to your daily diet, but will
also serve as a healthful curb to your appetite.

    [Illustration: {uncaptioned}]

Take the Knox “Booster” Drink (with milk) ½ hour before lunch and
dinner. In an 8 or 10 oz. dry glass, thoroughly mix 1 envelope Knox
Gelatine with 3-6 tablespoons _instant_ non-fat dry milk. (Varies with
brand.) Fill with cold water. Stir briskly until milk thoroughly
dissolves. Drink quickly.

Q. HOW DO YOU GET STARTED ON THE KNOX CHOICE-OF-FOODS DIET?

    [Illustration: {uncaptioned}]

A. FIRST, _find your desirable weight on the following chart_; SECOND,
_determine the proper number of calories you need to lose weight_.
HERE’S HOW: Let’s say you are a woman 5′3″ tall and have a medium frame;
according to the table you should weigh 128 lbs. Now multiplying this by
10 you will have the recommended daily calories you should have to lose
weight properly.

                        128 × 10 = 1280 calories

    [Illustration: {uncaptioned}]

  DESIRABLE WEIGHTS: MEN, AGES 25 AND OVER[5]
  HEIGHT (_with      WEIGHT IN POUNDS (_as
     shoes_)          ordinarily dressed_)
   Feet   Inches   Small     Medium    Large
                   Frame     Frame     Frame

       5       2  116-125   124-133   131-142
       5       3  119-128   127-136   133-144
       5       4  122-132   130-140   137-149
       5       5  126-136   134-144   141-153
       5       6  129-139   137-147   145-157
       5       7  133-143   141-151   149-162
       5       8  136-147   145-156   153-166
       5       9  140-151   149-160   157-170
       5      10  144-155   153-164   161-175
       5      11  148-159   157-168   165-180
       6       0  152-164   161-173   169-185
       6       1  157-169   167-178   174-190
       6       2  163-175   171-184   179-196
       6       3  168-180   176-189   184-202

    [Illustration: {uncaptioned}]

     DESIRABLE WEIGHTS: WOMEN, AGES 25 AND
                    OVER[5]
  HEIGHT (_with      WEIGHT IN POUNDS (_as
     shoes_)          ordinarily dressed_)
   Feet   Inches   Small     Medium    Large
                   Frame     Frame     Frame

       5       0  105-113   112-120   119-129
       5       1  107-115   114-122   121-131
       5       2  110-118   117-125   124-135
       5       3  113-121   120-128   127-138
       5       4  116-125   124-132   131-142
       5       5  119-128   127-135   133-145
       5       6  123-132   130-140   138-150
       5       7  126-136   134-144   142-154
       5       8  129-139   137-147   145-158
       5       9  133-143   141-151   149-162
       5      10  136-147   145-155   152-166
       5      11  139-150   148-158   155-169
       6       0  141-153   151-163   160-174

THIRD, _record present weight, weight goal and body measurements on the
following chart ... every week record your progress_!


YOUR CHECK-UP CHART




  Date At Beginning of Diet          _____________________
  At End of Diet                     _____________________
  Your Desirable Weight              _____________________
  Your Measurements                       Week
  At Beginning
                          1      2      3      4      5      6

  Weight, (pounds)      _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____
  Bust, (inches)        _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____
  Waist, (inches)       _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____
  Hips, (inches)        _____  _____  _____  _____  _____  _____

FOURTH, _you’re ready to start diet ... and begin planning your meals
from the Knox Choice-of-Foods diet lists on the pull-out chart following
page 18_.

It’s easy to do ... and to show you just _how easy_ it is we’ve done
this sample menu for one day based on the 1200 CALORIE PATTERN:

  BREAKFAST                           THIS AMOUNTS TO

  _Knox High-Protein Gelatin Drink_
  Made with ¾ cup Orange Juice        1½ Fruit List Choices
  Soft Cooked Egg                     1 Meat List Choice
  Buttered Toast                      1 Bread List Choice
                                      1 Fat List Choice
  Milk                                1 Milk List Choice
  Tea or Coffee (no milk or sugar)    Free Choice

  “BETWEEN-MEAL” SNACK

  30 Minutes before lunch—Knox Drink made with 1 cup Bouillon (see
    recipe page 10)—Free Choice (you do not have to count it in your
    daily calorie pattern).

  LUNCH                                THIS AMOUNTS TO

  Vegetable Plate with Minted         1 Vegetable List Choice
    Carrots
  Spinach, seasoned with vinegar      1 Vegetable List Choice
  Celery Hearts                       1 Vegetable List Choice
  Bread and Butter                    1 Bread List Choice
                                      1 Fat List Choice
  Orange Cream                        ½ Milk List Choice
  Tea or Coffee                       Free Choice

  “BETWEEN-MEAL” SNACK

  Knox Drink made with ¾ cup          1½ Fruit List Choices
    Grapefruit Juice

  DINNER

  Lean Ground Beef Pattie             3 Meat List Choices
  Baked Potato with Lean Meat Juices  1 Bread List Choice
  Buttered Beets                      1 Vegetable List Choice
                                      1 Fat List Choice
  Perfection Salad with Low-Calorie   Free Choice (you do not have to
    Salad Dressing                    count this in your calorie
                                      pattern)
  Banana                              2 Fruit List Choices
  with Milk                           ½ Milk List Choice
  Tea or Coffee                       Free Choice




                   ALSO NOTE THESE SPECIAL MENU HELPS


1. When a recipe serving is listed as “Free Choice” it means that you
may eat 1 serving without having to count it in your daily diet pattern.

2. Use the milk in your meal plan to drink, in coffee, on cereal, or
with other foods.

3. Serve vegetables plain or with part of the meat or fat choice for
seasoning. You may wish to use together the vegetables, milk, and meat
choices in your meal plan. This way you can make soups, stews, or other
dishes in which you combine several foods.

4. Measure all foods on the Bread List after they have been cooked.

5. Eat the meat or fish prepared for the family as long as no fat or
flour has been added. Meat juices, with the fat removed, may be used
with your meat or vegetables for added flavor.

It is important that you measure meat after it is cooked. Bones and
extra fat should not be counted in the total weight. Cut off extra fat
instead of eating it.

6. When you are on a reducing regime, no matter whether on a 1200, 1600,
or 1800 calorie diet, use only the amount of fat permitted in that diet.
You may use it in any way you prefer—as a spread, for seasoning foods,
in dressing vegetables—but count the fat used in these ways as part of
your total allowance for the day.

It is easier to diet when food looks so appealing that you don’t miss
high-calorie foods or high-calorie extras.




                          SPECIAL RECIPE HELPS


_It may help you to have a list of some foods that are low in calories._


                         LOW-CALORIE SWEETENERS

Because each teaspoon of sugar gives 20 calories, you can cut them down
if you use a sweetener that will not supply any calories.

Low-calorie sweeteners mean sweet taste without calories and without
sugar. The recipes in this booklet use saccharin (¼ grain tablets),
Sucaryl (tablets or solution), and Sweeta (solution).

  1 tablet saccharin              Equaled in sweetness by 1 teaspoon
                                  of sugar
                or
  1 tablet Sucaryl
                or
  ⅛ tsp. Sucaryl solution
                or
  2 drops Sweeta

It is unwise to take more than a reasonable amount (equal to about 12
tablets) as the total in the day’s meals.

Liquid non-caloric sweeteners may be added directly to the dissolved
gelatine mixture.

Non-caloric sweetening tablets may be crushed and stirred into the
dissolved gelatine mixture, or they may be dissolved in small amount of
the liquid called for in a recipe, then added.


                           LOW-CALORIE FOODS

A number of low-calorie canned or bottle fruits, fruit juices, and
beverages are now available in many markets. These foods add much
interest in low-calorie diets.

Low-calorie foods used in recipes in this booklet include:

  Canned Fruits, unsweetened
  Canned Fruits, non-caloric sweetened
  Canned Fruit Juices, unsweetened
  Canned Fruit Juices, non-caloric sweetened
  Carbonated Beverages, non-caloric sweetened

Skim milk is a low-caloric form of milk which helps with successful
weight loss by keeping calories low while food value remains high. Fluid
skim milk or non-fat dry milk solids can be used.

Non-fat dry milk solids plus water make skim milk. Follow directions on
the package for correct proportions. To reliquefy—measure dry milk into
glass; add 1 cup water and stir. Chill.


              STEPS TO SUCCESS WITH KNOX GELATINE RECIPES

To insure satisfactory jelling, the number of grains of Knox Unflavored
Gelatine in each envelope is measured scientifically. Tablespoons vary
in size. An “envelope” of gelatine is always an accurate measure.

To soften gelatine in all cold liquids except milk, sprinkle gelatine
into ½ cup of the cold liquid. Let stand to soften.

To soften gelatine in ½ cup of cold milk, stir the gelatine into the
milk.

To dissolve softened gelatine, stir into hot liquid required in the
recipe, or place over hot water and stir until dissolved.

One envelope of gelatine will gel up to 2 cups of liquid.

When solids are added to 2 cups of a gelatine-liquid mixture, up to 2
cups may be added.


                         MORE GEL-COOKERY HELPS

Fresh pineapple and frozen must be cooked before adding it to a gelatine
mixture to insure jelling; canned pineapple can be used as it comes from
the can.

When adding solid ingredients, the gelatine mixture is first chilled to
the consistency of cold unbeaten egg white from fresh eggs. This
prevents the solids from rising to the top or sinking to the bottom of
the mold.

To chill the gelatine mixture quickly to the consistency of unbeaten egg
white, half fill the lower part of a double boiler with ice and water.
Set upper part of double boiler containing the gelatine-liquid mixture
over the ice. Stir frequently until it is a smooth, evenly chilled,
unbeaten egg white consistency. As an alternative, two bowls may be used
instead of the double boiler.

When low-calorie sweeteners are used in the recipe, beat the egg whites
stiff but not dry, then fold them in as directed.

If sugar is used in the recipe when beaten egg whites are added to the
gelatine, beat a part of it into the egg whites as in meringues.


              HOW TO MOLD AND UNMOLD KNOX GELATINE DISHES

Jellied foods—soups, main dishes, salads, or desserts—can be molded in
square, round, or loaf pans, muffin tins, washed tins from canned foods,
bowls, cups, glasses, or paper drinking cups. For easy serving, a
gelatine mixture may be chilled in serving dishes that will go directly
to the table, or it may be spooned from bowls into serving dishes.

To unmold, dip the mold in warm or hot water to the depth of the
gelatine—metal molds in warm water, glass molds in hot water. Loosen
edge with the tip of a paring knife. Place the serving dish on top of
the mold, the two tightly together, and turn upside down. Shake, holding
the serving dish tightly to the mold. Carefully lift off the mold.
Gelatine may be unmolded at serving time, or even as long as an hour or
so before mealtime if the service plate or platter is put back in the
refrigerator.




                _Here’s the_ KEY _to the Reducing Plan_
                THE KNOX CHOICE-OF-FOODS DIET LIST CHART


    [Illustration: {uncaptioned}]




          KNOX Gel-Cookery is GOOD EATING that’s good for you!


    [Illustration: {uncaptioned}]

_On the following pages you’ll see tested low-calorie recipes that make
reducing (AND WEIGHT-WATCHING AFTER REDUCING) a pleasure!_


JELLIED TOMATO BROTH
_6 Servings_
_1 Serving Equals Free Choice_

  1 envelope Knox Unflavored Gelatine
  1½ cups cold water
  1½ cups tomato juice
  ½ teaspoon salt
  2 teaspoons whole mixed spices

Sprinkle gelatine on ½ cup cold water to soften. Combine the remaining
water, tomato juice, salt, and spices. Bring to a full boil. Strain to
remove spices. (It is helpful to place whole spices in a tea ball, so
that they can be removed without straining the broth.) Stir in softened
gelatine until thoroughly dissolved. Serve hot, or chilled to soft jelly
consistency.


                               VARIATION:

Use 1½ cups canned tomatoes instead of tomato juice. Strain before
      adding softened gelatine.

_1 Serving Equals Free Choice_


JELLIED BEEF BOUILLON
_6 Servings_
_1 Serving Equals Free Choice_

  1 envelope Knox Unflavored Gelatine
  3 cups water
  3 beef bouillon cubes
  2 tablespoons strained lemon juice

Sprinkle gelatine on ½ cup cold water to soften. Simmer bouillon cubes
in the remaining water until dissolved. Add softened gelatine and stir
until dissolved. Stir in lemon juice. Serve hot, or chilled to soft
jelly consistency.


JELLIED TOMATO BEEF BOUILLON
_6 Servings_
_1 Serving Equals Free Choice_

  1 envelope Knox Unflavored Gelatine
  ½ cup cold water
  2 tablespoons minced onion
  1¾ cups fat-free, brown meat stock
  1 cup tomatoes
  1 tablespoon chopped parsley
  dash powdered cloves
  ½ teaspoon salt

Sprinkle gelatine on the cold water to soften. Simmer onion in meat
stock with tomatoes, parsley, cloves, and salt until tender. Strain. Add
softened gelatine and stir until thoroughly dissolved. Measure, and if
necessary, add very hot water to make 3 cups. Serve hot, or chilled to
soft jelly consistency.


                              VARIATIONS:

Use 2 beef bouillon cubes and 1¾ cups water instead of meat stock, if
      desired.

_1 Serving Equals Free Choice_

Use 1 cup tomato juice instead of tomatoes.

_1 Serving Equals Free Choice_

Use 2 beef bouillon cubes and 1¾ cups water instead of meat stock, and
      use 1 cup tomato juice instead of tomatoes.

_1 Serving Equals Free Choice_

JELLIED CONSOMMÉ ... Use reconstituted canned consommé or clarified
      beef, veal, or chicken stock instead of water, bouillon cubes, and
      lemon juice.

_1 Serving Equals Free Choice_

JELLIED CHICKEN BOUILLON ... Use chicken bouillon cubes instead of beef
      bouillon cubes. Season with ½ teaspoon salt, ¼ teaspoon each
      pepper and mace instead of lemon juice.

_1 Serving Equals Free Choice_

JELLIED CHICKEN BROTH ... Use 3 cups clarified chicken broth instead of
      bouillon cubes and water. Season same as Jellied Chicken Bouillon.

_1 Serving Equals Free Choice_


JELLIED TOMATO CHICKEN BOUILLON
_6 Servings_
_1 Serving Equals Free Choice_

  1 envelope Knox Unflavored Gelatine
  2 cups chicken broth
  1 cup strained tomatoes or tomato juice
  ½ teaspoon salt

Sprinkle gelatine on ½ cup cold broth to soften. Heat the remaining
broth, tomato juice, and salt until very hot. Add softened gelatine and
stir until thoroughly dissolved. Serve piping hot, or chilled to soft
jelly consistency.


                              VARIATIONS:

Use 2 chicken bouillon cubes plus 2 cups water instead of chicken broth.

_1 Serving Equals Free Choice_

Use 2 chicken bouillon cubes plus 3 cups tomato juice instead of chicken
      broth and 1 cup tomatoes.

_1 Serving Equals ½ Vegetable Choice_


JELLIED MADRILENE
_4 Servings_
_1 Serving Equals Free Choice_

  1 envelope Knox Unflavored Gelatine
  2½ cups clear beef stock[6]
  1 medium tomato, fresh or canned
  1½ tablespoons tomato paste
  2 tablespoons tarragon vinegar
  ½ bay leaf
  3 peppercorns
  ½ teaspoon salt
  1 crushed egg shell

Sprinkle gelatine on ½ cup cold beef stock to soften. Combine the
remaining stock, tomato, tomato paste, vinegar, spices, salt, and egg
shell. Heat to boiling, stirring constantly, over low heat. Remove from
heat. Add softened gelatine and stir until thoroughly dissolved. Let
stand 10 minutes. Strain through fine sieve covered with a damp cloth.
Serve hot, or chilled to soft jelly consistency.


BASIC MAIN COURSE SALAD MOLD
_6 Servings_
_1 Serving Equals 1 Meat Choice_

  1 envelope Knox Unflavored Gelatine
  ½ cup cold water
  1¼ cups very hot water
  4 tablespoons vinegar
  ½ teaspoon salt
  ½ cup diced celery
  2 tablespoons diced green pepper
  2 tablespoons finely diced onion
  1¼ cups flaked, cooked lean fish

Sprinkle gelatine on the cold water to soften. Stir the softened
gelatine into the very hot water until thoroughly dissolved. Add the
vinegar and salt. Chill to unbeaten egg white consistency. Fold in
vegetables and fish carefully. Turn into one large mold (3-4 cup) or 6
small molds. Chill until firm.


                              VARIATIONS:

Use 1¼ cups flaked salmon.

_1 Serving Equals 1 Meat Choice_

Use 1¼ cups finely flaked crab meat plus 1 tablespoon mayonnaise. Mix
      together before folding into gelatine.

_1 Serving Equals 1 Meat Choice_

Use 3 hard-cooked eggs, chopped, plus 1¼ cups flaked crab meat and 1
      tablespoon mayonnaise. Mix together before folding into gelatine.

_1 Serving Equals 1½ Meat Choices_

Use 1 cup flaked lobster plus ½ tablespoon mayonnaise. Mix together
      before folding into gelatine.

_1 Serving Equals 1 Meat Choice_

Use 1¼ cups whole shrimp plus 1 tablespoon mayonnaise. Mix together
      before folding into gelatine.

_1 Serving Equals 1 Meat Choice_

Use 1¼ cups flaked tuna fish. Reduce vinegar to 2 tablespoons and salt
      to ¼ teaspoon.

_1 Serving Equals 1½ Meat Choices_


CRAB MEAT SOUFFLE MOLD
_6 Servings_
_1 Serving Equals 1½ Meat Choices plus ½ Milk Choice_

  1 envelope Knox Unflavored Gelatine
  ½ cup cold skim milk[7]
  1½ cups very hot skim milk[7]
  2 egg yolks
  1 teaspoon salt
  ¼ teaspoon paprika
  2 tablespoons lemon juice
  1 teaspoon prepared mustard
  1½ cups cooked, flaked crab meat

Stir gelatine into the cold skim milk to soften. Add the softened
gelatine to the very hot skim milk and stir until thoroughly dissolved.
Combine egg yolks, salt, and paprika; slowly add the hot mixture. Cook
over hot, not boiling, water until mixture thickens, stirring
constantly. Cool 10 minutes. Stir in lemon juice, mustard, and crab
meat. Turn into one large mold (3-4 cup). Chill until firm.


                               VARIATION:

Use 1½ cups tuna or other fish instead of crab meat.

_1 Serving Equals 2 Meat Choices plus ½ Milk Choice_


SALMON IN TOMATO ASPIC
_6 Servings_
_1 Serving Equals 1½ Meat Choices_

  1 envelope Knox Unflavored Gelatine
  1 cup water
  ¾ cup tomato juice
  2 tablespoons vinegar
  ½ teaspoon salt
  ½ teaspoon whole mixed spices
  1½ cups flaked canned salmon
  ¼ cup chopped celery
  ¼ cup chopped green pepper

Sprinkle gelatine on ½ cup cold water to soften. Combine the remaining
water, tomato juice, vinegar, salt, and spices. Bring to a full boil.
Remove spices. (It is helpful to place whole spices in a tea ball, so
that they can be removed without straining the broth.) Stir in softened
gelatine until thoroughly dissolved. Chill to unbeaten egg white
consistency. Blend in salmon, celery, and green pepper. Turn into one
large mold (3 cup) or 6 individual molds. Chill until firm.


                              VARIATIONS:

Use 1½ cups flaked tuna fish instead of salmon.

_1 Serving Equals 2 Meat Choices_

Use 1½ cups flaked cooked white meat fish (haddock) instead of salmon.

_1 Serving Equals 1 Meat Choice_

Use 1½ cups flaked cooked fatty fish (halibut) instead of salmon.

_1 Serving Equals 1½ Meat Choices_


CHICKEN PINEAPPLE MOLD
_6 Servings_
_1 Serving Equals 1 Meat Choice_

  1 envelope Knox Unflavored Gelatine
  1¾ cups chicken stock[8]
  1 teaspoon salt
  2 tablespoons lemon juice
  1 non-caloric sweetening tablet or equivalent[9]
  ½ cup canned unsweetened pineapple, diced
  1¼ cups cooked, diced chicken

Sprinkle gelatine on ½ cup cold chicken stock to soften. Heat the
remaining chicken stock with salt until boiling. Remove from heat. Stir
in softened gelatine until thoroughly dissolved. Add lemon juice and
non-caloric sweetener. Chill to unbeaten egg white consistency. Fold in
pineapple and chicken. Turn into a small loaf pan or one large mold (4
cup). Chill until firm.


                               VARIATION:

Use canned chicken broth or consommé instead of chicken bouillon cubes
      and water.

_1 Serving Equals ½ Vegetable Choice_

    [Illustration: {uncaptioned}]


VEGETABLES MOLDED IN CHICKEN ASPIC
_6 Servings_
_1 Serving Equals ½ Vegetable Choice_

  1 envelope Knox Unflavored Gelatine
  2 cups water
  2 chicken bouillon cubes
  ½ teaspoon salt
  ½ cup cooked, drained peas
  ½ cup cooked, drained, diced carrots
  ½ cup diced celery
  ¼ cup diced green pepper

Sprinkle gelatine on ½ cup cold water to soften. Heat the remaining
water with bouillon cubes until dissolved. Add salt and softened
gelatine and stir until thoroughly dissolved. Chill to unbeaten egg
white consistency. Stir in vegetables. Turn into one large mold (3-4
cup) or 6 individual molds. Chill until firm.


                               VARIATION:

Use canned chicken broth or consommé instead of chicken bouillon cubes
      and water.

_1 Serving Equals ½ Vegetable Choice_


JELLIED CHICKEN MOUSSE
_8 Servings_
_1 Serving Equals 1 Meat Choice_

  1 envelope Knox Unflavored Gelatine
  ½ cup cold water
  1 cup very hot chicken stock
  ¼ teaspoon onion salt
  ⅔ cup chilled evaporated milk, whipped
  1 tablespoon lemon juice
  1½ cups cooked diced chicken

Sprinkle gelatine on the cold water to soften. Dissolve the softened
gelatine in very hot chicken stock to which onion salt has been added.
Cool to unbeaten egg white consistency. Beat with rotary beater until
fluffy. Fold in whipped evaporated milk and lemon juice. Blend in
chicken. Turn into one large mold (6 cup). Chill until firm.


                               VARIATION:

Use 1½ cups cooked diced turkey instead of chicken.

_1 Serving Equals 1 Meat Choice_


CHICKEN VEGETABLE MOLD
_6 Servings_
_1 Serving Equals 1 Meat Choice_

  1 envelope Knox Unflavored Gelatine
  2 cups water[10]
  2 chicken bouillon cubes
  1 cup cooked diced chicken
  ½ cup cooked or canned peas, well drained
  ½ cup diced celery
  2 tablespoons diced pimiento
  1 tablespoon finely chopped parsley

Sprinkle gelatine on ½ cup cold water to soften. Heat the remaining
water with bouillon cubes until cubes are completely dissolved. Remove
from heat. Stir in softened gelatine until thoroughly dissolved. Chill
to unbeaten egg white consistency. Fold in chicken and vegetables. Turn
into one large mold (4 cup). Chill until firm.


                               VARIATION:

Pour a thin layer of gelatine and chicken stock mixture in a loaf pan
      and chill until almost firm. Meanwhile, chill remaining gelatine
      mixture to unbeaten egg white consistency. When the gelatine layer
      is almost firm, arrange 6 slices of chicken on it; add a little
      more of the gelatine mixture; chill again. Fold vegetables into
      remaining chilled mixture and carefully place on the jellied
      chicken slices. Chill again until mold is firm.

_1 Serving Equals 1 Meat Choice_

    [Illustration: {uncaptioned}]


JELLIED MEAT SALAD
_6 Servings_
_1 Serving Equals 1 Meat Choice_

  1 envelope Knox Unflavored Gelatine
  ½ cup cold water
  2 bouillon cubes
  1¼ cups water
  1½ tablespoons lemon juice
  1 teaspoon grated onion
  1 cup finely diced cooked meat
  ½ cup diced celery
  ½ cup cooked or canned peas, well drained

Sprinkle gelatine on the cold water to soften. Combine bouillon cubes
with the remaining water, lemon juice, and onion, and heat until
bouillon cubes are completely dissolved. Add softened gelatine, and stir
until thoroughly dissolved. Chill to unbeaten egg white consistency.
Fold in meat, celery, and peas. Turn into a 4-cup loaf pan. Chill until
firm. Cut into slices and serve on crisp lettuce.


COTTAGE CHEESE IN TOMATO ASPIC
_6 Servings_
_1 Serving Equals 1 Meat Choice_

  1 envelope Knox Unflavored Gelatine
  ½ cup cold water
  1½ cups very hot tomato juice
  2 bouillon cubes
  1 cup cottage cheese
  1 tablespoon grated onion
  2 drops Worcestershire sauce
  ⅛ teaspoon pepper

Sprinkle gelatine on the cold water to soften. Heat tomato juice and
bouillon cubes until cubes are completely dissolved. Remove from heat.
Add softened gelatine and stir until thoroughly dissolved. Chill to
unbeaten egg white consistency. Blend in cottage cheese, onion, and
seasonings. Turn into one large mold (3-4 cup) or 6 individual molds.
Chill until firm.


BASIC GELATINE SALAD
_6 Servings_
_1 Serving Equals ½ Vegetable Choice_

  1 envelope Knox Unflavored Gelatine
  ½ cup cold water
  1¼ cups very hot water
  ¼ teaspoon salt
  ¼ cup vinegar or lemon juice
  4 to 6 non-caloric sweetening tablets or equivalent[9]
  1 cup shredded carrots
  ½ cup cooked or canned peas, well drained

Sprinkle gelatine on the cold water to soften. Add softened gelatine to
the very hot water and stir until thoroughly dissolved. Add the salt,
vinegar, and non-caloric sweetener. Stir until thoroughly mixed. Chill
to unbeaten egg white consistency. Fold in vegetables. Turn into one
large mold (3-4 cup) or 6 individual molds. Chill until firm.


                              VARIATIONS:

Use 1¼ cups very hot consommé instead of very hot water.

_1 Serving Equals ½ Vegetable Choice_

Use 1¼ cups very hot consommé instead of very hot water. Add 1 cup diced
      cooked meat instead of carrots. Decrease non-caloric sweetener to
      1 tablet or equivalent.

_1 Serving Equals 1 Meat Choice plus ½ Vegetable Choice_

Use 1½ cups very hot fruit juice instead of very hot water. Add fruit
      such as 1 cup orange sections, ½ cup grapefruit sections, and ½
      cup pineapple cubes instead of vegetables.

_1 Serving Equals 1½ Fruit Choice_

Use 1 cup shredded cabbage, ½ cup cooked carrots, and ½ cup cooked or
      canned peas as solids. Use vinegar instead of lemon juice.

_1 Serving Equals ½ Vegetable Choice_

Use 1 cup diced apple and 1 cup drained grapefruit sections as solids.
      Use lemon juice instead of vinegar.

_1 Serving Equals ½ Fruit Choice_

Use 1 cup diced cooked beets and 1 cup shredded raw spinach as solids.
      Use vinegar instead of lemon juice.

_1 Serving Equals ½ Vegetable Choice_

Use 1½ cups drained grapefruit sections and ¼ cup coarsely chopped
      nutmeats as solids. Use lemon juice instead of vinegar.

_1 Serving Equals ½ Fruit Choice plus ½ Fat Choice_

Use 1¼ cups diced apple, ½ cup diced celery, and ¼ cup coarsely chopped
      nutmeats as solids. Use lemon juice instead of vinegar.

_1 Serving Equals ½ Fruit Choice plus ½ Fat Choice_

Use 1½ cups diced cucumber, ½ cup diced celery, and 1 tablespoon grated
      onion as solids. Use vinegar instead of lemon juice.

_1 Serving Equals Free Choice_

Use 1 cup peas, 1 scant cup diced cooked carrots, and 1 tablespoon diced
      pimiento as solids. Use vinegar instead of lemon juice.

_1 Serving Equals ½ Vegetable Choice_

Use 1 cup peas, ½ cup diced celery, and ½ cup diced green pepper as
      solids. Use vinegar instead of lemon juice.

_1 Serving Equals ½ Vegetable Choice_


QUICK BASIC ASPIC
_4 Servings_
_1 Serving Equals Free Choice_

  1 envelope Knox Unflavored Gelatine
  2 cups water
  2 bouillon cubes
  2 tablespoons lemon juice
  Seasonings such as salt, pepper, parsley, thyme, savory, cloves, or
              bay leaf, as desired

Sprinkle gelatine on ½ cup cold water to soften. Boil remaining water
with bouillon cubes and seasonings until bouillon cubes are completely
dissolved. Strain. Add lemon juice and enough hot water to make 1½ cups
of liquid. Stir in softened gelatine until thoroughly dissolved. Pour
into flat pan, one large mold (2 cup), or 4 individual molds. This aspic
may be used as a garnish or as a base for jelling meat, fish, or
vegetables.


                              VARIATIONS:

Use canned bouillon or consommé instead of water and bouillon cubes.
      Season to taste.

_1 Serving Equals Free Choice_

Use beef bouillon cubes and add as solids—1 cup diced leftover meat, ½
      cup diced celery, and 2 tablespoons chopped green pepper. Pour
      into one large mold (3-4 cup).

_Makes 6 servings_

_1 Serving Equals 1 Meat Choice_

Use chicken bouillon cubes and add as solids—1 cup diced cooked chicken
      and ½ cup diced celery. Pour into one large mold (3-4 cup).

    [Illustration: {uncaptioned}]


SAVORY TOMATO ASPIC
_4 Servings_
_1 Serving Equals Free Choice_

  1 envelope Knox Unflavored Gelatine
  ½ cup cold water
  2 bouillon cubes
  1½ cups tomato juice
  1 tablespoon grated onion
  2 drops Kitchen Bouquet
  ¼ teaspoon Worcestershire sauce
  ⅛ teaspoon pepper

Sprinkle gelatine on the cold water to soften. Heat bouillon cubes in
tomato juice until completely dissolved. Remove from heat. Stir in
softened gelatine until thoroughly dissolved. Add seasonings. Pour into
one large mold (2-3 cup) or 4 individual molds. Chill until firm.


                               VARIATION:

Pour into a flat pan to ½ inch depth. Chill until firm. Cut into fancy
      shapes to use as a garnish for cold meats. Will make approximately
      16 such servings.

_1 Serving Equals Free Choice_


QUICK TOMATO JUICE ASPIC
_4 Servings_
_1 Serving Equals Free Choice_

  1 envelope Knox Unflavored Gelatine
  2 cups tomato juice
  1 tablespoon lemon juice
  ½ teaspoon salt
  ⅛ teaspoon pepper

Sprinkle gelatine on ½ cup cold tomato juice to soften. Heat remaining
tomato juice until very hot. Remove from heat. Add softened gelatine,
lemon juice, and seasonings. Stir until thoroughly dissolved. Pour into
one large mold (2 cup) or 4 individual molds. Chill until firm.


                               VARIATION:

Use above recipe, but before molding, chill to unbeaten egg white
      consistency. Stir in 2 cups crisp shredded cabbage. Turn into one
      large mold (3-4 cup) and chill until firm.

_Makes 6 servings_

_1 Serving Equals Free Choice_


ORIGINAL PERFECTION SALAD MOLD
_6 Servings_
_1 Serving Equals Free Choice_

  1 envelope Knox Unflavored Gelatine
  ½ cup cold water
  1¼ cups very hot water
  ¼ cup vinegar
  1 tablespoon lemon juice
  6 non-caloric sweetening tablets or equivalent[9]
  ¾ cup finely shredded cabbage
  ½ teaspoon salt
  1 cup diced celery
  1 pimiento, chopped

Sprinkle gelatine on the cold water to soften. Dissolve the softened
gelatine thoroughly in the very hot water. Add vinegar, lemon juice, and
non-caloric sweetener. Chill to unbeaten egg white consistency. Fold in
remaining ingredients and turn into one large mold (3-4 cup) or 6
individual molds. Chill until firm.


SAVORY QUICK SALAD DRESSING
_20 Servings—1 tablespoon each_
_1 Serving Equals Free Choice_

  ¼ cup lemon juice
  1 cup undiluted evaporated milk
  ½ teaspoon salt

Combine lemon juice, evaporated milk, and salt in screw-top jar. Shake
well to blend.

    [Illustration: {uncaptioned}]


CARROT-ORANGE JELLIED SALAD
_6 Servings_
_1 Serving Equals 1 Fruit Choice_

  1 envelope Knox Unflavored Gelatine
  ½ cup cold orange juice
  1 cup very hot water
  ¼ teaspoon salt
  3 tablespoons lemon juice or vinegar
  9 non-caloric sweetening tablets or equivalent[9]
  ½ cup shredded raw carrot
  ¼ cup well drained, canned, crushed pineapple[11]
  ½ cup well drained, cubed orange sections

Sprinkle gelatine on cold orange juice to soften. Combine very hot
water, salt, lemon juice or vinegar, and non-caloric sweetener. Add the
softened gelatine and stir until thoroughly dissolved. Chill to unbeaten
egg white consistency. Fold in carrots, pineapple, and orange. Turn into
one large mold (3 cup) or 6 individual molds. Chill and serve.


LOW-CALORIE COOKED SALAD DRESSING
_44 Servings—1 tablespoon each_
_1 Serving Equals Free Choice_

  1 envelope Knox Unflavored Gelatine
  ½ cup cold water
  2 teaspoons dry mustard
  2 teaspoons salt
  ¼ teaspoon paprika
  1⅓ cups boiling water
  2 tablespoons butter or fortified margarine
  2 eggs, well beaten
  4 non-caloric sweetening tablets or equivalent[9]
  ½ cup vinegar

Sprinkle gelatine on the cold water to soften in top of double boiler.
Mix together mustard, salt, and paprika and gradually add the boiling
water. Add this hot mixture and butter or margarine to softened
gelatine. Stir until softened gelatine is thoroughly dissolved and
butter or margarine is melted. Add gradually to the beaten eggs and
return to top of double boiler. Cook over hot, but not boiling, water,
until the mixture begins to thicken, stirring constantly. Remove from
heat. Add non-caloric sweetener and very slowly stir in vinegar. Chill
until slightly thickened. Beat with rotary beater until well blended.
Store, covered, in refrigerator. To serve, beat lightly with a fork.


BASIC “GEL” FOR NON-CALORIC CARBONATED BEVERAGES
_4 Servings_
_1 Serving Equals Free Choice_

  1 envelope Knox Unflavored Gelatine
  ½ cup cold water
  1½ cups non-caloric carbonated beverage

Sprinkle gelatine on the cold water in top of double boiler. Stir over
hot water until gelatine is thoroughly dissolved. Remove from heat. Add
beverage and blend. Turn into one large mold (2 cup) or 4 individual
molds. Chill until firm.


SPANISH CREAM
_8 Servings_
_1 Serving Equals ½ Milk Choice_

  1 envelope Knox Unflavored Gelatine
  ½ cup cold skim milk[7]
  1½ cups very hot skim milk[7]
  ⅛ teaspoon salt
  2 egg yolks, beaten
  1 teaspoon vanilla extract
  8 non-caloric sweetening tablets or equivalent[9]
  2 egg whites, stiffly beaten

Soften gelatine by stirring it into the cold skim milk in top of double
boiler. Add the very hot skim milk and salt. Place over boiling water;
stir until softened gelatine is thoroughly dissolved. Pour slowly into
egg yolks, stirring constantly. Return to top of double boiler; cook
over hot, but not boiling, water, stirring constantly, until mixture
coats a spoon. Remove from heat. Add vanilla and non-caloric sweetener.
Stir to dissolve completely. Chill until slightly thicker than unbeaten
egg white consistency. Fold into beaten egg whites. Turn into one large
mold (4 cup) or 8 individual molds. Chill until firm.


CHERRY SPONGE
_4 Servings_
_1 Serving Equals 1 Fruit Choice_

  1 envelope Knox Unflavored Gelatine
  ½ cup cold water
  1 one-pound can water packed sour pitted cherries
  1 tablespoon lemon juice
  8 non-caloric sweetening tablets or equivalent[9]
  1 egg white, stiffly beaten

Sprinkle gelatine on the cold water to soften. Empty cherries into a
saucepan and boil for 5 minutes. Turn into bowl and beat with rotary
beater until broken up in fine pieces. Measure and if necessary, add
very hot water to make 1¼ cups. Add softened gelatine, lemon juice, and
non-caloric sweetener; stir until softened gelatine is thoroughly
dissolved. Chill to unbeaten egg white consistency. Whip with rotary
beater until fluffy. Fold in beaten egg white until smooth. Turn into
one large mold (2 cup) or 4 individual molds. Chill.


CUCUMBER-GRAPEFRUIT SALAD MOLD
_6 Servings_
_1 Serving Equals ½ Fruit Choice_

  1 envelope Knox Unflavored Gelatine
  ½ cup cold water
  1½ cups very hot water
  ¼ teaspoon salt
  1 tablespoon vinegar
  3 non-caloric sweetening tablets or equivalent[9]
  1 cup diced, drained grapefruit sections
  1 cup diced, drained cucumber

Sprinkle gelatine on the cold water to soften. Stir softened gelatine
into the very hot water with salt until it is thoroughly dissolved. Add
vinegar and non-caloric sweetener. Chill to unbeaten egg white
consistency. Fold in grapefruit and cucumber. Pour into one large mold
(3-4 cup) or 6 individual molds. Chill until firm.


LEMON GELATINE
_4 Servings_
_1 Serving Equals Free Choice_

  1 envelope Knox Unflavored Gelatine
  ½ cup cold water
  1¼ cups very hot water
  ¼ cup lemon juice
  6 non-caloric sweetening tablets or equivalent[9]

Sprinkle gelatine on the cold water to soften. Stir the softened
gelatine into the very hot water until thoroughly dissolved. Add lemon
juice and non-caloric sweetener. Pour into one large mold (2-3 cup) or 4
individual molds. Chill until firm.


APRICOT SPONGE

  _6 Servings_
  _1 Serving Equals ½ Meat Choice_

  1 envelope Knox Unflavored Gelatine
  ½ cup cold water
  ½ cup sieved apricot pulp
  1 tablespoon grated lemon rind
  1 tablespoon lemon juice
  4 non-caloric sweetening tablets or equivalent[9]
  3 egg whites, stiffly beaten but not dry

Sprinkle gelatine on the cold water to soften in top of double boiler.
Dissolve softened gelatine thoroughly over hot water. Stir in apricot
pulp, lemon rind, lemon juice, and non-caloric sweetener. Chill until
thickened but not firmly set. Whip with rotary beater until fluffy. Fold
in beaten egg whites. Turn into one large mold (3-4 cup) or 6 individual
molds. Chill until firm.


                               VARIATION:

Use ½ cup sieved prune pulp instead of apricot pulp.

_1 Serving Equals ½ Meat Choice plus ½ Fruit Choice_


JELLIED BLANC MANGE

    [Illustration: {uncaptioned}]

  _4 Servings_
  _1 Serving Equals ½ Milk Choice_

  1 envelope Knox Unflavored Gelatine
  ½ cup cold skim milk[7]
  1½ cups very hot skim milk[7]
  ¼ teaspoon salt
  ½ teaspoon vanilla extract
  8 non-caloric sweetening tablets or equivalent[9]
  Few drops of food coloring (optional)

Soften gelatine by stirring it into the cold skim milk. Stir softened
gelatine into the very hot skim milk with salt until thoroughly
dissolved. Add vanilla and non-caloric sweetener. Tint with food
coloring, if desired. Pour into one large mold (2-3 cup) or 4 individual
molds. Chill until firm.


                               VARIATION:

  BLANC MANGE WHIP
  _6 Servings_
  _1 Serving Equals ½ Milk Choice_

Add ⅛ teaspoon nutmeg to Blanc Mange recipe. Reduce sweetening and food
coloring, if desired. Chill to unbeaten egg white consistency. Beat
until fluffy and fine textured. Turn into one large mold (3-4 cup) or 6
individual molds. Chill until firm.


LEMON SNOW
_6 Servings_
_1 Serving Equals Free Choice_

  1 envelope Knox Unflavored Gelatine
  ½ cup cold water
  2 teaspoons finely grated lemon rind
  ¼ cup lemon juice
  1¼ cups very hot water
  16 non-caloric sweetening tablets or equivalent[9]
  1 egg white

Sprinkle gelatine on the cold water to soften. Add lemon rind and lemon
juice to the very hot water. Bring to a boil. Remove from heat. Add
softened gelatine and non-caloric sweetener; stir until thoroughly
dissolved. Chill to unbeaten egg white consistency. Add unbeaten egg
white; beat with a rotary beater until fluffy. Place container in bowl
of ice or iced water. Beat until mixture begins to hold its shape. Turn
into one large mold (3-4 cup) or 6 individual molds. Chill until firm.


EGG NOG CHIFFON PUDDING
_4 Servings_
_1 Serving Equals 1 Meat Choice_

  1 envelope Knox Unflavored Gelatine
  ½ cup cold water
  4 eggs, separated
  ¼ teaspoon salt
  1¼ cups very hot water
  10 non-caloric sweetening tablets or equivalent[9]
  1½ teaspoons imitation rum flavoring
  ½ teaspoon grated nutmeg

Sprinkle gelatine on the cold water to soften. Beat egg yolks, adding
salt, until light and fluffy. Add the very hot water to egg yolks
gradually and cook over simmering water, stirring constantly, until
mixture coats spoon. Remove from heat. Stir in softened gelatine,
non-caloric sweetener, flavoring, and nutmeg until gelatine is
thoroughly dissolved. Chill to unbeaten egg white consistency. Beat egg
whites until stiff but not dry. Fold into mixture carefully, blending
well. Pile into 4 sherbet glasses. Sprinkle lightly with nutmeg and
chill until firm.


APPLESAUCE WHIP
_6 Servings_
_1 Serving Equals 1 Fruit Choice_

  1 envelope Knox Unflavored Gelatine
  ½ cup cold water
  ½ cup very hot water
  2 tablespoons lemon juice
  5 non-caloric sweetening tablets or equivalent[9]
  2 cups cold, unsweetened applesauce

Sprinkle gelatine on the cold water to soften. Stir the softened
gelatine into the very hot water until thoroughly dissolved. Add lemon
juice and non-caloric sweetener. Blend in cold applesauce. Chill
thoroughly until thickened but not jellied. Whip with rotary beater
until light. Chill again. Heap into serving dishes.


KNOX BUTTER SPREAD
_64 Tablespoons or 192 Teaspoons_
_1 Tablespoon Equals 1 Fat Choice_
_3 Teaspoons Equal 1 Fat Choice_

  1 envelope Knox Unflavored Gelatine
  2 cups skim milk[7]
  1 pound butter
  Few drops yellow food coloring

Soften gelatine by stirring it into ½ cup cold skim milk in top of
double boiler. Place over hot water. Stir to dissolve softened gelatine
thoroughly. Soften butter. Gradually whip dissolved gelatine and
remaining 1½ cups skim milk into butter with rotary beater. Blend in a
few drops of yellow food coloring and additional salt, if desired. Pack
into 2 one-pound butter cartons or in deep, oblong pan. Cover. Chill
until firm.


ORANGE CREAM

  _6 Servings_
  _1 Serving Equals ½ Milk Choice_

  1 envelope Knox Unflavored Gelatine
  ½ cup cold water
  ½ cup scalded skim milk[7]
  1 egg yolk, well beaten
  1 tablespoon grated orange rind
  ⅔ cup orange juice
  4 non-caloric sweetening tablets or equivalent[9]
  1 tablespoon lemon juice
  1 egg white, beaten stiff but not dry
  ¼ cup chilled evaporated milk, whipped

Sprinkle gelatine on the cold water to soften. Stir the softened
gelatine into the scalded skim milk until thoroughly dissolved. Slowly
beat into egg yolk. Add orange rind; cook over hot water, stirring
constantly, until mixture coats spoon. Remove from heat. Add orange
juice, non-caloric sweetener and lemon juice. Chill to unbeaten egg
white consistency. Fold in beaten egg white and whipped evaporated milk.
Turn into one large mold (3-4 cup) or 6 individual molds. Chill until
firm.


                               VARIATION:

Use ¼ cup heavy cream, whipped, instead of ¼ cup chilled evaporated
      milk, whipped.

_1 Serving Equals ½ Milk Choice plus ½ Fat Choice_




                               Remember!


    [Illustration: {uncaptioned}]

The Protein Drink referred to in this book is good for _you_ and your
entire family. It is made with Knox Gelatine ... pure, finest quality
gelatine that is _all protein_—no sugar ... unlike factory-flavored jell
desserts, which are about ⅞ sugar and ⅛ gelatine.

                                                       LITHO IN U. S. A.

DOCTORS OFTEN RECOMMEND KNOX FOR OTHER SPECIAL DIETS SUCH AS diabetic,
peptic ulcer, convalescent, low-salt and others. In every package of
Knox Gelatine there is a list of special diet booklets, FREE for the
asking.

    [Illustration: KNOX, THE REAL GELATINE
    ALL PROTEIN—NO SUGAR]


                            SO IMPORTANT TO
                        GETTING YOUR WEIGHT DOWN
                        ... AND KEEPING IT DOWN!

    [Illustration: KNOX HIGH-PROTEIN GELATINE DRINK]

  ★ _It’s a wonderfully filling, refreshing drink_

  ★ _It’ll curb your appetite, so you’ll be satisfied with less food_

  ★ _It’ll give you additional Protein ... a must in reducing and
              weight-watching diets_

  ★ SEE DIRECTIONS FOR MAKING KNOX DRINK—INSIDE FOLDER ... UNDER
              “BETWEEN-MEAL” SNACK LIST

_Follow it and see how easy it is to lose those extra pounds_ ⇒




                               FOOTNOTES


[1]_See Choice of Foods Chart._

[2]_Calories indicate the amount of energy a certain amount of food will
    supply._

[3]_If your physician wants you to lose faster than this he will tell
    you how many total calories you should have each day._

[4]_112 to 130 calories—varies with brand milk used._

[5]_Courtesy, Metropolitan Life Insurance Co._

[6]_Use 3 beef bouillon cubes plus 2½ cups water instead of beef stock,
    if desired._

[7]_Use ½ cup non-fat dry milk solids reliquefied with 2 cups water for
    skim milk._

[8]_Use 2 chicken bouillon cubes and 1¾ cups water instead of chicken
    stock, if desired._

[9]_See page 16 for kinds and amount of sweeteners to use._

[10]_Use 2 cups chicken stock instead of water plus bouillon cubes, if
    desired._

[11]_Unsweetened or canned with a non-caloric sweetener._




                                  KNOX
                  CHOICE-OF-FOODS DAILY DIET LISTS[a] for
                           1200 CALORIE DIETS
                           1600 CALORIE DIETS
                           1800 CALORIE DIETS


IMPORTANT! To achieve your weight goal ... _your daily diet must include
foods from each of the lists shown ... in the exact amounts indicated
for your particular calorie pattern_. Your calorie pattern requirements
are indicated in the same color in each list. 1200 calories (red), 1600
calories (blue), 1800 calories (green).

You may eat these foods any time of the day you wish ... however, it’s
advisable to divide them into 3 equal meals.

MEASURE CAREFULLY ... USE STANDARD MEASURING CUPS AND SPOONS


[a]_The Food Exchange Lists shown in this book are based on material
    included in “Meal Planning with Exchange Lists” prepared by
    Committees of the American Diabetes Association, Inc., and The
    American Dietetic Association in cooperation with the Chronic
    Disease Program, Public Health Service, Department of Health,
    Education and Welfare._


VEGETABLE LIST

Each of the following food choices contains little carbohydrate, protein
or calories.

                1200 CALORIE DIET · Choice of any number
                1600 CALORIE DIET · Choice of any number
                1800 CALORIE DIET · Choice of any number

In Raw Form, Size of Serving Unlimited; Cooked, Size Serving ½ to 1 cup.

  Asparagus
  Broccoli
  Brussels sprouts
  Cabbage
  Cauliflower
  Celery
  Chicory
  Cucumber
  Escarole
  Eggplant
  Lettuce
  Mushrooms
  Okra
  Pepper
  Radishes
  Greens:
  Beet greens
  Chard
  Collards
  Dandelion
  Kale
  Mustard
  Spinach
  Turnip greens
  Sauerkraut
  String beans
  Summer squash
  Tomatoes
  Watercress

OR You may choose from this vegetable list. Each of the following foods
contains 7 grams carbohydrate, 2 grams protein, 35 calories.

                  1200 CALORIE DIET · Choice of any 2
                  1600 CALORIE DIET · Choice of any 4
                  1800 CALORIE DIET · Choice of any 4

One Serving Equals ½ cup.

  Beets
  Carrots
  Onions
  Peas, green
  Pumpkin
  Rutabagas
  Squash, winter
  Turnips


BREAD LIST

Each of the following food choices contains 15 grams carbohydrate, 2
grams protein, 70 calories.

                  1200 CALORIE DIET · Choice of any 3
                  1600 CALORIE DIET · Choice of any 4
                  1800 CALORIE DIET · Choice of any 3

                                         _Amount to Use_
  Bread                           1 slice
     Biscuit, roll (2″ diameter)  1
     Muffin (2″ diameter)         1
     Cornbread (1½″ cube)         1
  Cereals, cooked                 ½ cup
     Dry, flake and puff types    ¾ cup
  Rice, grits, cooked             ½ cup
  Spaghetti, noodles, cooked      ½ cup
  Macaroni, cooked                ½ cup
  Crackers, graham (2½″ sq.)      2
     Oysterettes (½ cup)          20
     Saltines (2″ sq.)            5
     Soda (2½″ sq.)               3
     Round, thin                  6
  Flour                           2½ tablespoons
  Vegetables
     Beans and peas, dried,       ½ cup
  cooked (lima, navy, split
  peas, cowpea, etc.)
     Baked beans, no pork         ¼ cup
     Corn                         ⅓ cup
     Popcorn                      1 cup
     Parsnips                     ⅔ cup
  Potatoes, white                 1 small
  Potatoes, white, mashed         ½ cup
  Potatoes, sweet, or yams        ¼ cup
  Sponge cake, plain (1½″ cube)   1
  Ice cream (omit two fat         ½ cup
  choices)


MILK LIST

Each of the following food choices contains 12 grams carbohydrate, 8
grams protein, 10 grams fat and 170 calories.

                  1200 CALORIE DIET · Choice of any 2
                  1600 CALORIE DIET · Choice of any 2
                  1800 CALORIE DIET · Choice of any 3

                                  _Amount to Use_
  Whole milk (plain or            1 cup
  homogenized)
  [12]Skim milk                   1 cup
  Evaporated milk                 ½ cup
  Powdered whole milk             ¼ cup
  [12]Non-fat dry milk solids     ¼ cup
  Buttermilk (made from whole     1 cup
  milk)
  [12]Buttermilk (made from       1 cup
  skim milk)

You can use the milk on your meal plan to drink in coffee, on cereal, or
with other foods.


FAT LIST

Each of the following food choices contains 5 grams fat, 45 calories.

                  1200 CALORIE DIET · Choice of any 3
                  1600 CALORIE DIET · Choice of any 3
                  1800 CALORIE DIET · Choice of any 6

                                  _Amount to Use_
  Butter or margarine (1 small    1 teaspoon
  pat)
  Bacon, crisp                    1 slice
  Cream, light                    2 tablespoons
  Cream, heavy                    1 tablespoon
  Cream cheese                    1 tablespoon
  Avocado (4″ diameter)           ⅛
  French dressing                 1 tablespoon
  Mayonnaise                      1 teaspoon
  Oil or cooking fat              1 teaspoon
  Nuts                            6 small
  Olives                          5 small


FRUIT LIST

Each of the following food choices contains 10 grams carbohydrate and 40
calories.

                  1200 CALORIE DIET · Choice of any 5
                  1600 CALORIE DIET · Choice of any 5
                  1800 CALORIE DIET · Choice of any 5

                                  _Amount to Use_
  Apple (2″ diameter)             1 small
  Applesauce                      ½ cup
  Apricots, fresh                 2 medium
  Apricots, dried                 4 halves
  Banana                          ½ small
  Blackberries                    1 cup
  Raspberries                     1 cup
  Strawberries                    1 cup
  Blueberries                     ⅔ cup
  Cantaloupe (6″ diameter)        ¼
  Cherries                        10 large
  Dates                           2
  Figs, fresh                     2 large
  Figs, dried                     1 small
  Grapefruit                      ½ small
  Grapefruit juice                ½ cup
  Grapes                          12
  Grape juice                     ¼ cup
  Honeydew melon, medium          ⅛
  Mango                           ½ small
  Orange                          1 small
  Orange juice                    ½ cup
  Papaya                          ⅓ medium
  Peach                           1 medium
  Pear                            1 small
  Pineapple                       ½ cup
  Pineapple juice                 ⅓ cup
  Plums                           2 medium
  Prunes, dried                   2 medium
  Raisins                         2 tablespoons
  Tangerine                       1 large
  Watermelon                      1 cup

You may use your fruit fresh, dried, cooked, canned or frozen as long as
no sugar has been added.


MEAT LIST

Each of the following food choices contains 7 grams protein, 5 grams
fat, 75 calories.

                  1200 CALORIE DIET · Choice of any 4
                  1600 CALORIE DIET · Choice of any 6
                  1800 CALORIE DIET · Choice of any 6

                                  _Amount to Use_
  Meat and Poultry (_medium       1 ounce[13]
  fat_) 3-4 Oz. Average Serving
  (Beef, lamb, pork, liver,
  chicken, etc.)
  Cold cuts (4½″ x ⅛″) Salami,    1 slice
  Minced Ham, Bologna,
  Liverwurst, Luncheon Loaf
  Frankfurter (8-9 per lb.)       1
  Egg                             1
  Fish: haddock, flounder,        1 ounce[13]
  bass, 3-4 Oz. Average Serving
     Serving
     Salmon, tuna, crab, lobster  ¼ cup
     Shrimp, clams, oysters,      5 small
  etc.
     Sardines                     3 medium
  Cheese, Cheddar type            1 ounce
     Cottage                      ¼ cup
  Peanut butter                   2 tablespoons


“BETWEEN-MEAL” SNACK LIST

Each of the following “Between-Meal” snacks is made with Knox—the _real_
unflavored gelatine. There are only 28 calories in each envelope of
High-Protein Knox.

           1200 CALORIE DIET · Take Knox Drink 3 times daily
           1600 CALORIE DIET · Take Knox Drink 3 times daily
           1800 CALORIE DIET · Take Knox Drink 3 times daily

Take the Knox High-Protein Drink ½ hour before meals as a cold drink
(_with Fruit Juices_). Empty 1 envelope Knox Gelatine in ¾ glass of
orange juice, other fruit juices or water, not iced. Let liquid absorb
the gelatine. Then stir briskly. Drink quickly. If it thickens, add more
liquid, stir again.

OR

As a hot drink (with Bouillon). Sprinkle 1 envelope Knox Gelatine on ¼
cup cold water to soften. Add 1 bouillon cube and ¾ cup boiling water.
Stir until gelatine and bouillon cube are thoroughly dissolved. ¾ cup of
any very hot broth may be used in place of bouillon.

After you have reached your weight goal ... take Knox “Booster” Drink
(with milk) to maintain weight and to supply additional protein. 1 (8
oz.) glass contains 15 grams protein, 130 calories. In an 8 or 10 oz.
dry glass, thoroughly mix 1 envelope Knox Gelatine with 3 to 6
tablespoons _instant_ non-fat dry milk (varies with brand). Fill with
cold water. Stir briskly until milk thoroughly dissolves. Drink quickly.




                               FOOTNOTES


[12]_Skim milk products contain less fat. When used instead of whole
    milk add 2 fat choices to get the same food value._

[13]_Equals 1 Meat Choice; 3 oz. serving uses 3 Meat List Choices._


_For additional copies of this convenient reducing chart to carry in
your purse or pocket write_:

CHAS. B. KNOX GELATINE CO., Johnstown, N. Y.




                          Transcriber’s Notes


—Silently corrected a few typos.

—Retained publication information from the printed edition: this eBook
  is public-domain in the country of publication.

—In the text versions only, text in italics is delimited by
  _underscores_.







End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Knox Eat and Reduce Plan, by Anonymous

